---
title: "MAEDAY: MAE for few and zero shot AnomalY-Detection"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-11-25-mayday
excerpt: ''
date: 2022-11-25
venue: 'ArXiv'
paperurl: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2211.14307
citation: 'Schwartz, E., Arbelle, A., Karlinsky, L., Harary, S., Scheidegger, F., Doveh, S. and Giryes, R., 2022. MAEDAY: MAE for few and zero shot AnomalY-Detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.14307.'

---
# Abstract

The goal of Anomaly-Detection (AD) is to identify outliers, or outlying regions, from some unknown distribution given only a set of positive (good) examples. Few-Shot AD (FSAD) aims to solve the same task with a minimal amount of normal examples. Recent embedding-based methods, that compare the embedding vectors of queries to a set of reference embeddings, have demonstrated impressive results for FSAD, where as little as one good example is provided. A different approach, image-reconstruction-based, has been historically used for AD. The idea is to train a model to recover normal images from corrupted observations, assuming that the model will fail to recover regions when encountered with an out-of-distribution image. However, image-reconstruction-based methods were not yet used in the low-shot regime as they need to be trained on a diverse set of normal images in order to properly perform. We suggest using Masked Auto-Encoder (MAE), a self-supervised transformer model trained for recovering missing image regions based on their surroundings for FSAD. We show that MAE performs well by pre-training on an arbitrary set of natural images (ImageNet) and only fine-tuning on a small set of normal images. We name this method MAEDAY. We further find that MAEDAY provides an orthogonal signal to the embedding-based methods and the ensemble of the two approaches achieves very strong SOTA results. We also present a novel task of Zero-Shot AD (ZSAD) where no normal samples are available at training time. We show that MAEDAY performs surprisingly well at this task. Finally, we provide a new dataset for detecting foreign objects on the ground and demonstrate superior results for this task as well. Code is available at https://github.com/EliSchwartz/MAEDAY .

[Download paper here](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2211.14307)

Recommended citation:
@article{schwartz2022maeday,
  title={MAEDAY: MAE for few and zero shot AnomalY-Detection},
  author={Schwartz, Eli and Arbelle, Assaf and Karlinsky, Leonid and Harary, Sivan and Scheidegger, Florian and Doveh, Sivan and Giryes, Raja},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.14307},
  year={2022}
}